>> WE FIGHT FOR OUR FREEDOM,
WE FIGHT FOR OUR INDEPENDENCE,
WE FIGHT FOR OUR SOVEREIGNTY,
AND WE WILL NEVER SURRENDER.
>> Woodruff: IN A VISIT TO THE
WHITE HOUSE, UKRAINE'S INTERIM
PRIME MINISTER CALLED ON THE
U.S. TO AID HIS COUNTRY.
AND PRESIDENT OBAMA AGAIN WARNED
RUSSIA THERE WILL BE COSTS FOR
ESCALATING THE CRISIS.
GOOD EVENING, I'M JUDY WOODRUFF,
GWEN IFILL IS AWAY.
ALSO AHEAD, THE REPUBLICAN PARTY
SCORED A KEY ELECTION WIN IN
FLORIDA.
BUT DOES IT MEAN THE G.O.P. HAS
AN ADVANTAGE HEADING INTO THIS
YEAR'S MIDTERMS?
AND, IT WAS ONCE A NOVELTY, BUT
AFTER A QUARTER-CENTURY, IT'S
BECOME AN INDISPENSABLE TOOL.
WE EXPLORE THE WORLD WE WEIDB AT
TWENTY-FIVE.
>> TALKING ABOUT THE INTERNET IS
LIKE TALKING ABOUT WHETHER
ELECTRICITY IS GOOD OR BAD, OR
OXYGEN IS GOOD OR BAD.
IT'S JUST THIS POWERFUL THING
THAT CONNECTS ALL OF US AND THAT
HAS BECOME AN INVISIBLE PART OF
OUR LIVES.
>> Woodruff: THOSE ARE JUST SOME
OF THE STORIES WE'RE COVERING ON
TONIGHT'S PBS NEWSHOUR.
>> Woodruff: UKRAINE'S EMBATTLED
>> Woodruff: BEIJING TODAY
RELEASED THIS IMAGE AND TWO
OTHERS TAKEN SUNDAY OVER THE
SOUTH CHINA SEA.
IT CAME AFTER ANOTHER DAY OF
FRUITLESS SEARCHING.
JOHN SPARKS OF INDEPENDENT
TELEVISION NEWS REPORTS FROM
KUALA LUMPUR.
>> AFTER FIVE DAYS OF CONFUSION,
THE LOCATION OF A SOPHISTICATED
JET IS STILL UNKNOWN, AND IT'S
THE SORT OF THING THAT MAKES
PEOPLE NERVOUS.
>> OBVIOUSLY, I'M A BIT
CONCERNED, A BIT ANXIOUS.
>> SO THE MALAYSIAN GOVERNMENT
PUT THEIR CARDS ON THE TABLE
TODAY BEFORE A LARGE GROUP OF
INTERNATIONAL JOURNALISTS.
FIRSTLY, SAID THE TRANSPORT
MINISTER, THEY NEEDED MORE HELP.
>> LADIES AND GENTLEMEN, WE NEED
TO ANALYZE BOTH THE CIVILIAN AND
THE MILITARY DATA IN THE EAST OR
IN THE WEST, ON LAND OR IN THE
WATER, AND THAT IS EXACTLY WHAT
WE ARE DOING TODAY.
>> Reporter: THEY NEED MORE
HELP BECAUSE THEY DON'T KNOW
WHERE FLIGHT 370 IS.
HERE'S WHAT THEY SAID.
AT 12:41 A.M. SATURDAY, IT LEFT
KUALA LUMPUR FOR BEIJING.
THE AUTHORITIES SAY THEY LOST
CONTACT WITH IT 50 MINUTES
LATER.
THE AIRCRAFT'S TRANSPONDER WHICH
SENDS OUT INFORMATION ABOUT
DIRECTION AND SPEED ALSO STOPPED
WORKING.
BUT AFTER REVIEWING MILITARY
RADAR, OFFICIALS SAW AN AIRCRAFT
ALTER COURSE.
IT MAY HAVE BEEN FLIGHT 370, BUT
THEY'RE NOT SURE.
IT WAS TRACKED 200 MILES OFF THE
COAST AND DISAPPEARED 2:15 A.M.
AS IT HEADED OUT TO SEA.
>> IN THE EAST, THERE'S A
POSSIBILITY THAT THIS AIRCRAFT
DID A TURNBACK, BUT WE ARE NOT
SURE WHETHER IT IS THE SAME
AIRCRAFT.
>> Reporter: WITH LITTLE TO GO
ON, THE MALAYSIANS HAVE EXPANDED
THE SEARCH AREA, THOUGH THERE
SEEMS LITTLE CHANCE OF FINDING
ANYONE LEFT ALIVE.
BUT TO UNDERSTAND WHAT'S
HAPPENED, THEY HAVE TO FIND THE
AIRCRAFT'S BLACK BOX.
WHILE THE GOVERNMENT TRIES TO
CLARIFY, THE PUBLIC HAS BEEN
OFFERING THEIR PRAYERS TO THE
RELATIVES AND FRIENDS OF THE
MISSING, BECAUSE NOBODY NEEDS AN
EXPLANATION MORE THAN THEM.
>> Woodruff: AT A WHITE HOUSE
MINISUMMIT, UKRAINE'S EMBATTLED
INTERIM GOVERNMENT GOT A VOTE OF
AMERICAN SUPPORT TODAY.
PRESIDENT OBAMA WARNED U.S. AND
OTHER MAJOR DEMOCRACIES WILL NOT
RECOGNIZE ANY VOTE IN CRIMEA TO
BREAK FREE OF UKRAINE.
HARI SREENIVASAN LOOKS AT THE
U.S. ROLE IN THE CRISIS, RIGHT
AFTER THE NEWS SUMMARY.
THE PRESIDENT ALSO MADE READY
TODAY TO ORDER BEEFED-UP
OVERTIME PROTECTION FOR MILLIONS
OF AMERICAN WORKERS.
IT'S AIMED AT SALARIED WORKERS,
SUCH AS FAST FOOD SUPERVISORS
AND STORE MANAGERS, WHO NOW WORK
MORE THAN 40 HOURS A WEEK
WITHOUT GETTING OVERTIME.
BETSEY STEVENSON IS WITH THE
PRESIDENT'S COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC
ADVISERS.
>> WITHOUT OVERTIME AND MINIMUM
WAGE PROTECTIONS THERE ARE MANY
PEOPLE WHO AREN'T ABLE TO GET
THAT BASIC PROMISE WHICH IS THAT
WHEN YOU WORK HARD YOU GET A
FAIR WAGE.
AND WHAT HE'S GOING TO DO IS TO
MAKE SURE THAT WE MODERNIZE THIS
RULE SO THAT PEOPLE ARE ABLE TO
GET TREATED FAIRLY IN THE LABOR
FORCE AND THAT PEOPLE ARE
REWARDED FOR A HARD DAY'S WORK
WITH FAIR PAY.
ALSO TODAY, THE WHITE HOUSE
ISSUED A REPORT AIMED AT THE
GENDER WAGE GAP.
IT SAID WOMEN WHO WORK FULL-TIME
STILL EARN JUST 77 CENTS FOR
EVERY DOLLAR EARNED BY MEN.
THAT'S EVEN THOUGH WOMEN HAVE
SURPASSED MEN IN EARNING COLLEGE
DEGREES, AND MADE INROADS INTO
MALE-DOMINATED OCCUPATIONS.
SNOW AND BITTER COLD ARE BACK IN
THE MIDWEST AND NORTHEAST, AFTER
A HINT OF SPRING.
A NEW STORM SWEPT ACROSS THE
COUNTRY'S  MID-SECTION TODAY.
CHICAGO AND DETROIT SAW 6 AND 8
INCHES OF SNOW, RESPECTIVELY.
IN DETROIT, THE TOTAL FOR THE
ENTIRE WINTER COULD TOP A RECORD
SET 133 YEARS AGO.
A THUNDEROUS EXPLOSION BLEW
APART TWO APARTMENT BUILDINGS IN
NEW YORK TODAY, KILLING TWO
PEOPLE AND INJURING MORE THAN
20.
MORE A DOZEN OTHERS WERE
UNACCOUNTED FOR.
THE FIERY BLAST RIPPED THROUGH
AN EAST HARLEM NEIGHBORHOOD AMID
REPORTS OF A POSSIBLE GAS LEAK.
IT TOUCHED OFF A FIVE-ALARM FIRE
THAT MORE THAN 250 FIREFIGHTERS
BATTLED.
MEANWHILE, CREWS IN SAN
FRANCISCO MOPPED UP ONE OF THE
LARGEST FIRES THERE IN RECENT
YEARS.
IT BURNED THROUGH THE NIGHT AT A
CONSTRUCTION SITE.
>> Woodruff: IN TURKEY, RIOT
POLICE BATTLED DEMONSTRATORS
AGAIN TODAY AFTER A NIGHT OF
PROTESTS TRIGGERED BY A TEEN-
AGER'S DEATH.
THOUSANDS TURNED OUT IN ISTANBUL
AND OTHER CITIES TO MOURN A
15 YEAR-OLD-BOY WHO WAS HIT BY A
TEAR-GAS CANISTER LAST SUMMER,
AND NEVER REGAINED
CONSCIOUSNESS.
POLICE FIRED WATER CANNON AND
SMOKE GRENADES TODAY, WHILE
PROTESTERS THREW STONES AND
MOLOTOV COCKTAILS.
THE ISRAELI PARLIAMENT HAS
VOTED TO  INDUCT ULTRA-ORTHODOX
JEWS INTO THE MILITARY.
THEY'D BEEN LARGELY EXEMPTED, TO
PURSUE RELIGIOUS STUDIES, BUT
THAT'S BECOME A SORE POINT WITH
OTHER ISRAELIS.
TODAY, LAWMAKERS APPROVED LIMITS
ON THE EXEMPTIONS FROM
COMPULSORY MILITARY SERVICE.
A NUMBER OF ULTRA-ORTHODOX
LAWMAKERS WALKED OUT, CALLING IT
A BLACK DAY.
A MAN WHO SPENT 26 YEARS ON
LOUISIANA'S  DEATH ROW ENJOYED
HIS FIRST FULL DAY OF FREEDOM
TODAY.
64-YEAR-OLD GLENN FORD WALKED
OUT OF PRISON LAST EVENING,
AFTER A JUDGE VOIDED HIS
CONVICTION IN A 1983 MURDER.
NEW EVIDENCE BACKED UP HIS CLAIM
THAT HE WAS NOT INVOLVED.
FORD SAID IT FEELS GOOD TO BE
FREE, BUT HE RESENTS ALL THE
YEARS HE LOST.
>> I CAN'T GO BACK AND DO
ANYTHING, I SHOULD BE DOING WHEN
I WAS 35, 38, 40, STUFF LIKE
THAT.
MY SONS, WHEN I LEFT, WAS
BABIES, NOW THEY'RE GROWN MEN.
>> Woodruff: UNDER LOUISIANA
STATE LAW, FORD MAY BE ELIGIBLE
FOR A TOTAL OF $320,000 IN
COMPENSATION FOR BEING WRONGLY
JAILED.
IN ECONOMIC NEWS, AVERAGE CASH
BONUSES AT WALL STREET
SECURITIES FIRMS ROSE 15% LAST
YEAR, TO $164,000 DOLLARS.
THAT'S THE HIGHEST SINCE 2008.
MEANWHILE, THE MARKETS WERE
LITTLE CHANGED TODAY.
THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
LOST 11 POINTS TO CLOSE AT
16,340.
THE NASDAQ ROSE 16 POINTS TO
CLOSE AT 4,323.
THE STANDARD AND POOR'S 500 ROSE
HALF A POINT TO FINISH AT 1868.
STILL TO COME ON THE NEWSHOUR,
THE INTERIM PRIME MINISTER OF AN
EMBATTLED UKRAINE APPEALS FOR
U.S. AID.
DOES A FLORIDA SPECIAL ELECTION
WIN MEAN THE WIND IS AT
REPUBLICANS' BACKS THIS FALL?
THE WORLD WIDE WEB TURNS TWENTY-
FIVE.
PLUS, A LANDMARK REPORT DELVES
INTO THE SEX TRADE.
>> Woodruff: AS TENSIONS WITH
RUSSIA CONTINUE TO RISE OVER
CRIMEA, ONE OF UKRAINE'S NEW
LEADERS ARRIVED AT THE WHITE
HOUSE SEEKING ASSURANCES FROM
PRESIDENT OBAMA.
HARI SREENIVASAN REPORTS.
>> Sreenivasan: IT WAS A PUBLIC
SHOW OF SOLIDARITY MEANT TO
BOLSTER UKRAINE AND DETER
RUSSIA.
THE INTERIM UKRAINIAN PRIME
MINISTER, ARSENIY YATSENYUK,
USED IT TO APPEAL AGAIN FOR U.S.
AND WESTERN BACKING.
>> WE FIGHT FOR FREEDOM,
INDEPENDENCE AND WE WILL NEVER
SURRENDER.
>> Sreenivasan: THE PRESIDENT
SAID WASHINGTON DOES STAND READY
TO AID UKRAINE WITH A BILLION
DOLLARS IN LOAN GUARANTEES.
AND HE INSISTED AGAIN, THE U.S.
WILL NOT ACCEPT RUSSIA'S
TAKEOVER OF CRIMEA.
IF HE DOES NOT, I'M VERY
CONFIDENT THAT THE INTERNATIONAL
COMMUNITY WILL STAND BEHIND THE
IRAQIAN GOVERNMENT IN PRESERVING
IS UNITY AND ITS TERRITORIAL
INTEGRITY.
>> Sreenivasan: THE WHITE HOUSE
MEETING UNFOLDED AS THE U.S.
NAVY BEGAN JOINT EXERCISES WITH
THE NAVIES OF BULGARIA AND
ROMANIA IN THE BLACK SEA, JUST
ACROSS FROM CRIMEA.
RUSSIA CONTINUES TO HOLD
UKRAINIAN MILITARY BASES THERE,
AND SAYS IT'S ACTING TO PROTECT
ETHNIC RUSSIANS.
BUT UKRAINE ARGUES A 1994
AGREEMENT OBLIGATED RUSSIA, THE
U.S. AND BRITAIN TO PROTECT IT'S
TERRITORIAL INTEGRITY,
AFTER UKRAINE GAVE UP IT'S
SOVIET-ERA NUCLEAR WEAPONS.
THE RUSSIANS HAVE SO FAR IGNORED
SUCH CLAIMS, AND CRIMEA PLANS TO
VOTE SUNDAY IN A REFERENDUM ON
WHETHER TO LEAVE UKRAINE AND
BECOME PART OF RUSSIA.
TODAY, THE G-7 COUNTRIES, THE
U.S. PLUS BRITAIN, CANADA,
FRANCE, GERMANY, ITALY AND
JAPAN, WARNED:
AND, THEY SAID:
WE WOULD NOT RECOGNIZE THE
OUTCOME.
>> IT CAN GET UGLY FAST IF THE
WRONG CHOICES ARE MADE. AND IT
CAN GET UGLY IN MULTIPLE
DIRECTIONS.
>> Sreenivasan: AHEAD OF THE
CRIMEA VOTE, SECRETARY OF STATE
JOHN KERRY ANNOUNCED HE'LL MEET
WITH THE RUSSIAN FOREIGN
MINISTER IN LONDON ON FRIDAY.
HE SPOKE AT A HOUSE HEARING.
>> WE DO NOT SEEK A WORLD IN
WHICH WE HAVE TO APPLY
ADDITIONAL COSTS TO THE CHOICES
THAT HAVE BEEN MADE THUS FAR.
BUT WE WILL DO WHAT WE HAVE TO
DO IF RUSSIA CANNOT FIND THE WAY
TO MAKE THE RIGHT CHOICES HERE.
>> Sreenivasan: ANY ADDITIONAL
COSTS COULD COME IN THE FORM OF
SANCTIONS, ENDORSED BY
THE SENATE FOREIGN RELATIONS
COMMITTEE TODAY.
THEY'D TARGET RUSSIAN OFFICIALS
DEEMED RESPONSIBLE FOR THE
CRIMEA INCURSION.
>> Woodruff: SO, HOW MUCH SHOULD
THE WHITE HOUSE SUPPORT
UKRAINE'S NEW GOVERNMENT?
AND HOW FAR SHOULD IT GO TO
EXTRACT COSTS FOR MOSCOW'S
ACTIONS?
FOR THAT WE GET TWO VIEWS:
ADRIAN KARATNYCKY IS A SENIOR
FELLOW AT THE ATLANTIC COUNCIL.
AND STEPHEN WALT PROFESSOR OF
INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AT
HARVARD UNIVERSITY.
>> ADRIAN, WE'LL START WITH YOU.
YOU MET WITH THE INTERIMPRIME
MINISTER EARLIER THIS AFTERNOON.
IS HE SATISFIED WITH THE SUPPORT
PRESIDENT OBAMA SAID WE WOULD
LAY OUT?
>> I THINK THIS IS A WORK IN
PROGRESS FROM THE POINT OF VIEW
THAT HE IS GETTING REASSURANCES
OF AER ARE DEEP AND SIGNIFICANT
ENGAGEMENT ON THE PART OF EUROPE
AND THE UNITED STATES BOTH
DEALING WITH THE ECONOMIC
TRAVAILS AND PROBLEMS THAT FACE
UKRAINE AND TRYING TO COME UP
WITH A MUSCULAR OR ASSERTIVE
RESPONSE, NOT MILITARY, BUT AN
ASSERTIVE RESPONSE TO THE
RUSSIAN INVASION INCURSION INTO
CRIMEA, I THINK HE IS SATISFIED.
BUT I WOULD SAY EVERYONE IS
WAITING TO SEE HOW FAR MR. PUTIN
WILL GO AND I THINK THE TYPES OF
RESPONSES THAT WILL COME WILL BE
COMMENSURATE TO THE GAIN THAT
MR. PUTIN PLAYS OUT IN THE
COMING WEEKS AND MONTHS.
>> Sreenivasan: YOU'VE SEEN
WHAT THE PRESIDENT SAID.
ANY MORE INSIGHT INTO WHAT THE
ADMINISTRATION IS WILLING TO DO?
>> I THINK WHAT PRESIDENT OBAMA
SAID IS FAIRLY RESTRAINED.
$1 BILLION IN LOAN GUARANTEES IS
REALLY NOT A VERY SUBSTANTIAL
PLEDGE, AND HE DIDN'T MAKE ANY
MILITARY COMMITMENTS TO USE
FORCE TO TRY AND REVERSE WHAT
HAS HAPPENED.
I THINK THE KEY THING TO
UNDERSTAND HERE IS THE UNITED
STATES WANTS TO DEFEND UKRAINE'S
TERRITORIAL INTEGRITY BUT IT
ALSO NEEDS TO START ISSUING SOME
REASSURANCES ABOUT UKRAINE'S
FUTURE GEOPOLITICAL ALIGNMENT.
OUR INTEREST IS FOR UKRAINE TO
REMAIN A NEUTRAL STATE BETWEEN
EAST AND WEST WITH GOOD
RELATIONS ON BOTH SIDES, NOT TO
BECOME SOMETHING THAT RUSSIA
REGARDS AS A BULWARK OF THE WEST
AGAINST IT.
THAT'S THE TAP ROOT OF THIS
CRISIS AND THE ONE THING THAT'S
BEEN MISSING SO FAR IS AN
ATTEMPT TO PLAY THAT CARD BACK
AT PUTIN AND TRY TO WORK TH
OUT DIPLOMATICALLY AS SOON AS
POSSIBLE.
>> Sreenivasan: IS IT POSSIBLE
EVENTS TODAY LIKE THE PHOTO OP,
THE SHAKING HANDS, SOLIDARITY OF
SUPPORT ACTUALLY BACKFIRES AND
WE LOOK LIKE WE'RE CLEARLY ON
ONE SIDE?
>> RUSSIA KEPT MOVING THE
GOALPOSTS.
RUSSIA WAS INITIALLY OPPOSED TO
UKRAINE'S MOVEMENT TOWARD NATO,
THERE'S NO CONSENSUS IN UKRAINE.
THERE'S OPPOSITION TO UKRAINE
BEING PART OF THE MILITARY
ALLIANCE.
BUT THERE WAS SUPPORT, A
MAJORITY SUPPORT FOR JOINING THE
EUROPEAN UNION.
IF RUSSIA KEEPS MOVING THE
GOALPOST AND SUGGESTING THAT
SOMEHOW AN ECONOMIC FREE TRADE
AGREEMENT WITH THE EUROPEAN
UNION IS A SIGN OF A THREATENING
SECURITY ISSUE FOR RUSSIA, THEN
I THINK THE PROBLEM IS WITH THE
BRUNGS SIDE NOT WITH THE
UKRAINIAN OR THE WEST.
>> Sreenivasan: LET'S TALK
ABOUT THE ECONOMIC SANCTIONS AND
POSSIBILITIES HERE, DO WE HAVE
ENOUGH LEVERAGE OVER RUSSIA
WHERE ECONOMIC SANCTIONS WOULD
ACT AS A DETERRENT FOR WHAT
THEY'RE DOING IN CRIMEA NOW?
>> I THINK WE PROBABLY DON'T.
REMEMBER, THE UNITED STATES HAS
VARIOUS SANCTIONS WE COULD
IMPOSE, BUT RUSSIA HAS VARIOUS
WAYS TO LIFOR EXAMPLE, THEY CANT
CUTTING OFF ENERGY SUPPLIES TO
UKRAINE AND ALSO TO OTHER STATES
IN EUROPE, WHICH GETS ABOUT 30%
OF ITS ENERGY, NOW, FROM RUSSIA.
SO, IN A SENSE, AS WE START DOWN
THAT PARTICULAR ROAD, WE HAVE TO
RECOGNIZE IT'S GOING TO IMPOSE
SIGNIFICANT COSTS ON US AND
SIGNIFICANT COASTS ON OUR
ALLIES.
MOST IMPORTANT OF ALL, THIS IS
AN ISSUE THAT MATTERS FAR MORE
TO RUSSIA THAN IT DOES TO US
BECAUSE OF WHERE UKRAINE IS
LOCATED, BECAUSE OF THE HISTORIC
TIES THERE AND BECAUSE OF
RUSSIAN PERCEPTIONS THAT WE HAVE
BEEN EXPANDING OUR GEOPOLITICAL
INFLUENCE INTO WHAT THEY REGARD
AS A VITAL SECURITY SPHERE.
THEY'RE GOING TO BE WILLING TO
PAY A MUCH BIGGER PRICE THAN
WE'RE LIKELY TO BE WILLING TO
PAY, AND THAT'S WHY WE NEED TO
BE STARTING TO LOOK FOR WAYS TO
DIFFUSE THIS, GET IT RESOLVED AS
QUICKLY AS POSSIBLE, PRESERVE
UKRAINE'S TERRITORIAL INTEGRITY
BUT ALSO REESTABLISH ITS NEUTRAL
STATUS.
>> Sreenivasan: ADRIAN, WHAT
ABOUT THAT?
>> RIGHT BANK UKRAINE WAS
HISTORICALLY INTEGRATED INTO
POLISH LIFE FOR MANY CENTURIES
AS WELL.
THERE ARE CULTURAL TIES BETWEEN
ROMANIA AND THE SOUTHWEST OF
UKRAINE AS WELL.
SO THE IDEA UKRAINE IS A STATE
OF RUSSIA IS NOT BORN OUT BY THE
FACTS.
UKRAINE IS A EUROPEAN STATE.
ODESSA IS ON THE BORDER CLOSE TO
ROMANIA SO BORDERS HUNGARY AND A
LOT OF THE CENTRAL EUROPEAN
COUNTRIES.
IT'S NOT REALLY A COUNTRY IN THE
SPHERE OF RUSSIAN INFLUENCE,
IT'S IN CENTRAL AND EASTERN
EUROPE AND SHOULD BE PERCEIVED
THAT WAY.
SAC TO THE COST, YES, RUSSIA
MUST BE WILLING TO BEAR MORE
COSTS.
THE GDP OF RUSSIA IS THE GDP OF
ITALY, FULL STOP.
YES IT HAS DISPROPORTIONATE
MILITARY WEAPONS, BUT AS AN
ECONOMIC POWER IT HAS VERY
LITTLE TO PLAY AND THE JOSTLED
BY SANCTIONS AND COULD HAVE A
VERY DEBILITATING EFFECT AND
MR. PUTIN MAY, IF THERE IS A
FIRM RESPONSE, PAY A POLITICAL
PRICE SEVERAL YEARS DOWN THE
LINE FOR THIS RECKLESS ACTION.
>> Sreenivasan: YOU'RE IN
FAVOR OF THE UKRAINE SHOWING
MORE TEETH, RAMPING UP THE
NATIONAL GUARD AND POSSIBLY
CREATING GUERILLA GROUPS?
>> THEY HAVE TO PREPARE BECAUSE
WE DON'T -- I'M NOT ENCOURAGING
THE WEST TO BE A PARTY TO THIS.
WHAT I'M SAYING IS UKRAINE HAS
TO HAVE A VERY VIGOROUS
DETERRENT AND I THINK, OVER
TIME, THE WEST, IF THINGS
STABILIZE, SHOULD HELP QUIET
UKRAINE TO HELP IMPROVE IT'S
MILITARY CAPABILITY.
THAT'S THE REALITY.
IF YOU HAVE BEEN INVADED AND
THAT INVASION IS AN ACCOMPLISHED
FACT SEVERAL YEARS DOWN THE
LINE, YOU CAN'T IGNORE IT.
UKRAINE HAS TO CHANGE ITS
DEFENSE POSTURE.
IT GOT RID OF NUCLEAR WEAPONS
PRESUMABLY ON RUSSIAN ASSURANCES
AND HAS MADE STEPS, AND MILITARY
IS BEHAVING WITH GREAT RESTRAINT
WHICH IS TO BE ADMIRED.
I AGREE WITH STEPHEN WALT, THIS
HAS TO BE HANDLED
DIPLOMATICALLY.
BUT IF WE FAIL, THE WEST HAS TO
HAVE A BACKUP PLAN AND THAT PLAN
IS SANCTIONS, BUILDING UP
UKRAINE'S DETERRENT CAPABILITY
AND HELPING THE COUNTRY SURVIVES
AN EASTERN OUTPOST OF A
NEWLY-DIVIDED EUROPE AT
RUSSIA'S -- AT UKRAINE'S EASTERN
BORDER.
THAT'S THE REGRETTABLE RESULT OF
MR. PUTIN'S FOULY.
>> Sreenivasan: STEPHEN, WHAT
ARE THE OPTIONS IN TRYING TO
BUILD UP UKRAINE'S DETERRENT
ABILITY?
>> I THINK THOSE ARE NOT
EFFECTIVE OPTIONS.
THE UNITED STATES IS NOT GOING
TO COMMIT ITSELF MILITARILY TO
DEFEND UKRAINE AT THIS STAGE.
IF RUSSIA WERE TO DO MORE -- SAY
GO INTO EASTERN UKRAINE, THAT, I
THINK, WOULD BE A HUGE BLUNDER
ON THEIR PART BECAUSE THEN THE
WESTERN PART OF UKRAINE WOULD
GRAVITATE TOWARDS OVER A UNITEDG
SURE THE POLITICAL SYSTEM GETS
BACK IN ORDER.
>> Sreenivasan:.
-- AND THEN TRIES TO GO -- SPOKE
ABOUT IT TODAY IN WASHINGTON.
STEPHEN WALT, ADRIAN KARATNYCKY,
THANK YOU BOTH.
THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: REPUBLICANS TODAY
BASKED IN THE GLOW OF THEIR
VICTORY IN FLORIDA'S HOTLY-
CONTESTED SPECIAL ELECTION, A
RESULT THAT COULD FORECAST
TROUBLE AHEAD FOR DEMOCRATS.
>> Woodruff: VOTERS IN FLORIDA'S
13TH CONGRESSIONAL DISTRICT
DELIVERED THEIR VERDICT IN A
SPECIAL ELECTION THAT GAINED THE
NATIONAL SPOTLIGHT.
ONLY 40% OF THOSE REGISTERED,
TURNED OUT, AND THEY NARROWLY
FAVORED REPUBLICAN DAVID JOLLY.
>> I AM HONORED AND HUMBLED TO
HAVE RECEIVED THE SUPPORT OF MY
COMMUNITY AND HAVE THE
OPPORTUNITY TO SERVE AS YOUR
NEXT REPRESENTATIVE FROM
FLORIDA'S 13TH CONGRESSIONAL
DISTRICT.
>> Woodruff: JOLLY TOOK 48% OF
THE VOTE, TO 46% FOR DEMOCRAT
ALEX SINK.
THEY BATTLED IN A TAMPA-AREA
DISTRICT THAT HAS LEANED
REPUBLICAN.
THE G.O.P. HAS HELD THE
CONGRESSIONAL SEAT FOR SOME 60
YEARS.
BUT DEMOCRATS HOPED VOTES WOULD
SWING IN THEIR FAVOR AFTER
PRESIDENT OBAMA CARRIED THE
DISTRICT IN THE LAST TWO
PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS.
NATIONAL PARTIES AND OUTSIDE
GROUPS LOOKED TO TUESDAY'S
CONTEST FOR EARLY CLUES TO  NEXT
NOVEMBER'S MID-TERM ELECTIONS.
ESPECIALLY, HOW THE PRESIDENT'S
HEALTH CARE LAW WILL PLAY.
>> 300,000 FLORIDIANS WILL LOSE
THEIR CURRENT HEALTH COVERAGE
BECAUSE OF OBAMACARE.
ALEX SINK SUPPORTED IT.
AND SHE STILL DOES.
>> WHOSE BEHIND THESE ADS
SMEARING ALEX SINK?
INSURANCE COMPANIES AND SPECIAL
INTERESTS.
THEY SPENT MILLIONS ON DAVID
JOLLY.
>> Woodruff: THE NON-PROFIT
SUNLIGHT FOUNDATION REPORTS
OVERALL SPENDING ON THE RACE
TOPPED $11 MILLION.
SINK OUTSPENT JOLLY BY MORE THAN
THREE TO ONE ON TELEVISION ADS.
BUT OUTSIDE GROUPS HELPED MAKE
UP THE DIFFERENCE FOR THE
REPUBLICAN.
>> WE HAD A BIG WIN LAST NIGHT
IN FLORIDA.
>> Woodruff: TODAY, HOUSE
SPEAKER JOHN BOEHNER, AND THE
WHITE HOUSE, HAD DECIDEDLY
DIFFERENT TAKES.
>> IT'S ABOUT THE ECONOMY.
IT'S ABOUT OBAMACARE.
LISTEN, I'VE STOOD HERE AFTER
LOSING SOME SPECIAL ELECTIONS.
I TRIED TO PUT LIPSTICK ON A
PIG, BUT IT WAS STILL A PIG.
SO YOU CAN BET THEY'LL TRY TO
PUT LIPSTICK ON IT TODAY, BUT
YOU ALL KNOW WHAT THE FACTS ARE.
>> IT'S A RACE WHERE, AGAIN,
REPUBLICANS HELD THE SEAT FOR 58
YEARS, WHERE THEY ROUTINELY WON
THAT SEAT BY 30 OR MORE POINTS.
AND LAST NIGHT THEY WON BY LESS
THAN TWO POINTS.
SO IT IS WHAT IT IS.
>> Woodruff: JOLLY WILL FILL THE
SEAT OF THE LATE CONGRESSMAN
BILL YOUNG WHO DIED LAST
OCTOBER, IN HIS 21ST TERM.
>> Woodruff: WE EXAMINE THE
OUTCOME IN YESTERDAY'S SPECIAL
ELECTION AND WHAT IT MEANS GOING
FORWARD, WITH:
STU ROTHENBERG OF THE
"ROTHENBERG POLITICAL REPORT"
AND "ROLL CALL NEWSPAPER."
AND SUSAN MACMANUS, PROFESSOR OF
POLITICAL SCIENCE AT THE
UNIVERSITY OF SOUTH FLORIDA.
WELCOME TO YOU BOTH.
SUSAN MACMANUS, YOU KNOW THE
STATE VERY WELL.
DESCRIBE THIS DISTRICT FOR US
AND WHERE IT IS.
IT'S PART OF ST. PETERSBURG, AND
WHO LIVES THERE.
>> YES, IT'S A DISTRICT THAT PIN
PINELLIS COUNTY WHERE
ST. PETERSBURG IS CARVED OUT.
IT'S PREDOMINANTLY A WHITE
DISTRICT, VOTERS, OVER HALF ARE
SENIORS, BUT MOST NO PARTY
AFFILIATION AND ONLY 2.4%
DIFFERENCE BETWEEN REPUBLICANS
AND DEMOCRATS WITH THE
REPUBLICANS HAVING AN UPPER
HAND.
IT'S BEEN EVOLVING INTO A
COMPETITIVE DISTRICT AND
DEMOCRATS WERE HOPEFUL TO PICK
THE SEAT UP.
>> Woodruff: STU, DIDNE O WAY
OR ANOTHER THE DEMOCRAT OR
REPUBLICAN HAVE AN ADVANTAGE
GOING IN?
>> IN TERMS OF PARTISAN NUMBERS,
NO.
IT IS A TOSSUP DISTRICT.
THE PRESIDENT WON IT TWICE,
GEORGE BUSH WON IT IN 2004.
ALL THE INDICES SHOW AN EVENLY
DIVIDED DISTRICT BUT I THINK
IT'S CLEAR ALEX SINK HAD THE
ADVANTAGE GOING INTO THE ACTUAL
SPECIAL ELECTION.
REPUBLICAN JOLLY HAD A PRIMARY
CHALLENGE.
HIS RECORD, HE WAS A WASHINGTON
LOBBYIST.
THAT IS NOT A GREAT CREDENTIAL
TO GO TO A SPECIAL ELECTION.
CHRISTMAS JUST A FEW MONTHS AGO,
ALEX SINK HAD A MILLION DOLLARS
IN THE BANK, JOLLY HAD JUST OVER
$100,000 AND IN THE MIDDLE OF A
PRIMARY CONTEST.
ALEX SINK HAS WON THIS DISTRICT
BEFORE, AND THEN SHE RAN
STATEWIDE A COUPLE OF TIMES.
SO ALL INDICATIONS WERE THAT SHE
HAD THE ADVANTAGE GOING INTO
THIS RACE.
>RACE.
>> Woodruff: SUSAN MACMANUS,
WHAT WAS THE MESSAGE COMING FROM
EACH ONE OF THE CANDIDATES SOME.
>> PURE AND SIMPLE, ITSO IF YOUE
PRESIDENT'S PERFORMANCE IN
OFFICE AND ObamaCare, IT WAS
CLEAR SINK WAS YOUR CANDIDATE.
ON THE OTHER SIDE, IF YOU DIDN'T
LIKE WHAT WAS GOING ON UP HERE,
YOU WERE VERY OPPOSED TO
ObamaCare, YOU WANTED TO GET
RID OF IT, THEN JOLLY WAS YOUR
PERSON.
THIS IS ONE OF THE CLEAREST
RACES IN TERMS OF CHOICES I'VE
SEEN IN FLORIDA IN A LONG TIME.
YOU HAD A LIBERTARIAN IN THE
RACE AS WELL WHO WAS SORT OF
OVERLAYING ON EACH OF THEM BUT
IN CERTAIN POLLS DRAWING 6% OR
7% SUPPORT THERE.
BUT IT WAS ABSOLUTELY CRYSTAL
CLEAR THE ISSUES WERE AT A
DIVIDING LINE AND IT CAME DOWN
TO YOUR VIEWS ON ObamaCare
AND THE PRESIDENT.
>> THERE WERE SOME PERSONAL
ATTACKS SO THAT THE REPUBLICANS
COMPLAINED ABOUT ALEX SINK'SPERF
FINANCIAL OFFICER OF THE STATE,
THE USE OF AN AIRPLANE.
DEMOCRATS TALKED ABOUT JOLLY'S
ETHICS, RAISING QUESTIONS ABOUT
HIM.
BUT I THINK SUSAN IS RIGHT, THIS
BOILED DOWN TO MILLIONS OF
DOLLARS OF ADS WHERE DEMOCRATS
SAID, YOU CAN'T TRUST DAVID
JOLLY, HE'S A LOBBYIST, A
REPUBLICAN, A CONSERVATIVE, HE'S
GOING TO CUT MEDICARE AND
PRIVATIZE SOCIAL SECURITY, AND
THE REPUBLICANS SAYING IT'S ALL
ABOUT ObamaCare, BARACK
OBAMA, BIGGER GOVERNMENT, MORE
SPENDING.
>> Woodruff: SO, SUSAN, WERE
YOU ABLE TO DRILL DOWN AND FIND
OUT MORE ABOUT WHAT VOTERS'
REACTIONS ARE TO THE HEALTHCARE
LAW?
>> I DON'T THINK IT'S REALLY
CLEAR COMING OUT OF THIS OTHER
THAN IT MIRRORS THE NATIONAL A
POLLS WHICH SHOW A SLIGHT
MAJORITY ARE IN FAVOR OF GETTING
RID OF IT.
BUT SHE REALLY TRIED TO SEGUE OR
PIVOT AWAY FROM ObamaCare
AND FOCUS ON SOCIAL SECURITY AND
MEDICARE AND ALEX SINK.
AND I DON'T THINK THAT WORKED
WELL WHICH IS SOMETHING I KNOW
DEMOCRATS WERE THINKING ABOUT
TRYING IN OTHER DISTRICTS.
BUT THERE IS ANOTHER FACTOR IS
HE TRIED TO CAST HER AS A CARPET
BAGGER, SOMEONE WHO
INTENTIONALLY MOVED INTO THE
DISTRICT JUST TO RUN FOR THIS
AND, AT FIRST, I DIDN'T THINK
THIS WAS SIGNIFICANT BECAUSE
TWO-THIRDS OF FLORIDA VOTERS
WERE FROM SOMEPLACE ELSE, BUT
THERE ARE A NUMBER OF PEOPLE IN
THE COUNTY OVER THERE, I
OBSERVED IT WAS SIGNIFICANT AND
I THINK HURT HER A BIT IN THE
END.
>> Woodruff: STILL, I HAVE
BEEN READING SOME ANALYSIS TODAY
THAT THE DEMOCRAT ALEX SINK
NEVER CAME UP WITH AN ADEQUATE
EXPLANATION ON THE PRESIDENT'S
HEALTHCARE LAW, ON O.K.CARE,
THAT SHE WAS ON THE DEFENSIVE,
DIDN'T EXPLAIN IT WELL.
WHAT ARE NATIONAL DEMOCRATS
SAYING ABOUT IT TODAY?
>> WELL, NATIONAL DEMOCRATS HAVE
A TOTALLY DIFFERENT ANALYSIS
THAN MOST PEOPLE.
SOME OF THEM ARE SAYING THAT
THIS IS A HEAVILY-REPUBLICAN
ELECTORATE AND THAT SINK DID
RELATIVELY WELL BECAUSE SHE
ANSWERED THE QUESTIONS ABOUT
ObamaCare AND HEALTHCARE,
GENERALLY.
THEY CONTINUE TO STRESS THE
NUMBERS OF THE KINDS OF PEOPLE
WHO VOTED, THAT THESE WERE
REPUBLICAN VOTERS.
>> Reporter: IT WAS A LOWER
RETURN.
>> YEAH, ABSOLUTELY.
DEMOCRATS DO OFTEN HAVE TROUBLE
WITH LOW TURNOUT ELECTIONS.
REMEMBER, ELECTIONS ARE NOT
ABOUT WHAT AMERICANS THINK,
THEY'RE ABOUT WHAT THE
PARTICULAR VOTERS THINK.
SO THERE'S NO DOUBT HERE.
BUT THERIS AE  PROBLEM FOR
DEMOCRATS.
THE FACT THAT THE ELECTORATE WAS
SO REPUBLICAN SUGGESTS
REPUBLICAN ENTHUSIASM AND MAYBE
LACK OF DEMOCRATIC ENTHUSIASM
AND DEMOCRATS WILL HAVE TO DEAL
WITH THIS IN NOVEMBER IN THE
MID-TERMS AS WELL.
>> Reporter:.
>> Woodruff: SUSAN, PICK UP ON
THAT.
>> I THINK A LOOT OF IT IS
DEMOCRATS DO WELL IN FLORIDA AND
ELSEWHERE WHEN THEY GET A LARGE
SHARE OF YOUNGER VOTERS.
IT'S EXACTLY WHO HELPED OBAMA
WIN IN THE LAST HOURS WERE THE
YOUNGER VOTERS THAT TURNED OUT
HIGHER THAN PEOPLE EVER
ANTICIPATED IN FLORIDA.
SHE WAS NOT ABLE TO REALLY
ENGAGE THEM AND  I THINK SOME OF
THE FAULT COMES FROM THE
NATIONAL ADS WHICH FEATURED JUST
ABOUT 100% OLDER PEOPLE IN
THERE.
THERE IS NOTHING THAT REALLY
DREW YOUNGER PEOPLE TO THE POLLS
AT ALL, AND IT'S SPRING BREAK
TIME IN FLORIDA.
>> Woodruff: WELL, IT IS THE
FIRST OF MANY ELECTIONS WE'LL BE
WATCHING THIS YEAR.
WE THANK YOU BOTH, SUSAN
MACMANUS, STU ROTHENBERG.
>> THANK Y.OU
>> Woodruff: THE WORLD WIDE WEB
TURNS 25 YEARS OLD TODAY.
THE DATE MARKS THE PUBLICATION
OF A PAPER THAT ORIGINALLY LAID
OUT THE CONCEPT, WHICH
EVENTUALLY LED TO THE VAST
SYSTEM OF INTERNET SITES WE NOW
USE.
JEFFREY BROWN LOOKS AT HOW IT'S
CHANGED THE WORLD WE LIVE IN.
>> Brown: ONE WAY TO DO THAT
IS LOOK AT HOW INDIVIDUAL
AMERICANS THINK ABOUT THE
INTERNET AND ITS IMPACT ON THEIR
LICE.
THE PURE RESEARCH INTERNET
PROJECT DID THAT IN A SURVEY
JUST OUT, AMONG MUCH ELSE IT
FINDS THAT 87% OF AMERICAN
ADULTS NOW USE THE INTERNET AND
THE NUMBER GOES UP TO 97% FOR
YOUNG ADULTS FROM 18 TO 29.
90% OF INTERNET USERS SAY THE
INTERNET HAS BEEN A GOOD THING
FOR THEM PERSONALLY, THOUGH THE
NUMBER DROPS TO 76% WHEN ASKED
IF THE INTERNET HAS BEEN A GOOD
THING FOR SOCIETY GENERALLY,
WITH 15% SAYING IT'S BEEN BAD
FOR SOCIETY AND 53% OF INTERNET
USERS SAY THE INTERNET WOULD BE,
AT MINIMUM, VERY HARD TO GIVE
UP.
WE'RE JOINED BY THREE PEOPLE
WHO'VE WATCHED THE GROWTH OF THE
INTERNET FROM DIFFERENT ANGLES.
JENNY IS JOURNALIST AND EDITOR
AT WEBLOG BOING BOING WHICH
COVERS TECHNOLOGY AND CULTURE.
KATHERINE IS A CLINICAL AND
CONSULTING PSYCHOLOGIST AT
HARVARD MIDDLE SCHOOL, AUTHOR OF
BIG DISCONNECT PROTECTING CHILD
AND FAMILY RELATIONSHIPS IN THE
DIGITAL AGE AND DANIEL TEACHES
COMPUTER SCIENCE AND INTERNET
PUBLIC POLICY IN AT M.I.T. FROM
2011 TO 2012, DEPUTY U.S. CHIEF
TECHNOLOGY OFFICER IN THE WHITE
HOUSE.
WELCOME TO YOU ALL.
DANIEL, YOU WORKED WITH ONE OF
THE MAIN PEOPLE WHO STARTED ALL
THIS 25 YEARS AGO.
WHAT SURPRISES YOU NOW SITTING
HERE 25 YEARS LATER ABOUT WHERE
WE'RE AT?
>> WELL, IT DOES SURPRISE ME HOW
TREMENDOUSLY THE INTERNET AND
WEB HAS GROWN INTO EVERY ASPECT
OF OUR LIVES.
I THINK A LOT OF US WHO WERE
INVOLVED IN THE EARLY DAYS OF
THE INTERNET AND THE WEB HOPED
IT COULD REALLY REACH THE WHOLE
WORLD AND THERE'S NO QUESTION
TIM WHOSE ARCHITECTURE OF THE
WEB HELPED IT GROW, HAD IT
REPRESENT EVERYTHING IN THE
WORLD, BUT IT'S AMAZING HOW FAR
WE'VE COME.
>> Sreenivasan: KATHERINE, YOU
LOOK AT THE INTERACTION BETWEEN
INDIVIDUALS AND OUR TECHNOLOGY
AND EACH OTHER.
THAT HAS CUT BOTH WAYS, I GUESS,
AT LEAST FROM WHAT WE HEAR FROM
PEOPLE.
WHAT DO YOU SEE?
>> I THINK THAT POSSIBILITIES
FOR PEOPLE TO CONNECT TO ONE
ANOTHER AROUND THE WORLD WHERE A
GRANDMA AND A GRANDCHILD ACROSS
THE STATE AND THE COUNTRY ARE
PHENOMENAL BUT WE'VE ALL COME TO
A MOMENT IN TIME WHERE WE'RE
SORT OF THINKING WE NEED TO
RE-THINK, ARE WE USING THESE
TOOLS TO CONNECT IN THE BEST
POSSIBLE WAY, AND WE HAVE TO
OUTSMART OUR Smartphones OR
THEY REALLY CAN TAKE CONTROL
OVER US.
>> Brown: FILL THAT IN A
LITTLE BIT.
WHAT DO YOU MEAN TAKE CONTROL
OVER US?
>> WELL, THE FIRST EXAMPLE IS
TEXTING AND DRIVING.
YOU KNOW, WHEN YOU'RE DRIVING
AND YOUR PHONE GOES OFF, YOU
HAVE THE SENSE OF URGENCY AND
SOMETHING REALLY IMPORTANT MIGHT
BE HAPPENING AND YOU BETTER
ANSWER IT RIGHT AWAY, AND THAT
PART OF OUR BRINE GETS QUICKLY
ENGAGED AND WANTS TO REACT VERY
FAST AND WE FORGET OR AMBIENT
AWARENESS AND EMPATHY AND THE
FACT THAT THE CHILDREN WHO WE
LOVE MORE THAN ANYONE ELSE ARE
SITTING NEXT TO US IN THE CAR
AND WE'RE RISKING THEIR SAFETY.
SO WE HAVE TO GET SMARTER ABOUT
HOW WE REACT TO THIS TECHNOLOGY.
>> WELL, JENNY, THAT'S A VERY
SPECIFIC EXAMPLE THAT HITS US
ALL IN OUR DAILY LIVES.
CONTINUE THINKING ABOUT PROS AND
CONS FROM YOUR APPROACH.
>> WELL, YOU KNOW, I THINK
TALKING ABOUT THE INTERNET IS
LIKE TALKING ABOUT WHETHER
ELECTRICITY OR OXYGEN IS GOOD OR
BAD.
IT'S THIS POWERFUL THING THAT
CONNECTS ALL OF US AND HAS
BECOME AN INVISIBLE PART OF OUR
LIVES AND I THINK WE'RE ALL FROM
THE LAST GENERATION THAT BEGAN
WHEN THERE WAS NO INTERNET.
AND TO REALLY UNDERSTAND WHERE
THINGS ARE GOING FOR THE FUTURE,
WE MIGHT WANT TO HAVE A
14-YEAR-OLD OR 15-YEAR-OLD AT
THE TABLE.
>> Brown: THEY WOULD BE
LOOKING AT THEIR SCREEN.
>> YEAH, I WORK WITH AN
INDEPENDENT PUBLISHING COMPANY
THAT WOULD NOT HAVE BEEN
POSSIBLE, BOING BOING COULDN'T
HAVE EXISTED BEFORE THE INTERNET
AS A COMMERCIAL ENTERPRISE, WE
HAVE BEEN AROUND 25 YEARS, TOO.
AND I CAN SEE FROM MY EXPERIENCE
AS A BREAST CANCER PATIENT, I
WAS DIAGNOSED YOUNG AND DIDN'T
KNOW THE FIRST THING ABOUT
MANAGING THIS DISEASE.
I CONNECTED WITH MENTORS THROUGH
THE INTERNET THAT WOULD HAVE
BEEN -- THESE FRIENDSHIPS, THESE
MENTORSHIPS WERE SO IMPORTANT TO
ME.
I THINK THEY SAVED MY LIFE AND I
CREDIT THE INTERNET WITH THAT.
>> Brown: WELL, DANIEL, THIS
HAS BEEN A YEAR FOR EXAMPLE
WHERE WE'VE LEARNED A LOT ABOUT
PRIVACY ISSUES BETWEEN EDWARD
SNOWDEN AND SURVEILLANCE AND
DATA MINING OF COMPANIES, THAT'S
CERTAINLY SOMETHING NEW.
>> IT'S NEW IN YOUR CATEGORY OF
WHAT'S INSPECTED.
I DO THINK THE INTERNET AND THE
WEB HAVE COME TO REACH INTO OUR
LIVES IN A MUCH MORE INTRUSIVE
WAY, IN FACT A COMPREHENSIVE WAY
SUCH THAT WE NOW HAVE TO DEAL
WITH THE WORLD IN WHICH JUST
ABOUT EVERYTHING WE DO AS
INDIVIDUALS IS RECORDED AND
VISIBLE NOT ONLY TO OURSELVES
AND OUR FRIENDS AND Facebook
FRIENDS BUT TO INSTITUTIONS THAT
ARE INTERESTED IN US,
GOVERNMENTS THAT MAYBE
INTERESTED FOR GOOD OR FOR ILL,
CRIMINALS WHO CAN WATCH WHAT
WE'RE DOING AND TAKE ADVANTAGE
OF US, AND, SO, I THINK THAT,
YOU KNOW, THE INTERNET IS -- AND
THE WEB HAS THIS INCREDIBLE
TENSION TO ME BETWEEN
EXTRAORDINARY INDIVIDUAL
EMPOWERMENT -- I MEAN,
EVERYTHING THAT JENNY AND
KATHERINE HAVE SAID ABOUT ALL
THE THINGS WE'RE ABLE TO DO WITH
THE INTERNET.
AT THE SAME TIME, A LOT CAN BE
DONE TO US AND A LOT CAN BE
OBSERVED ABOUT US.
AS A SOCIETY, I THINK WE'RE
REALLY STILL ADAPTING TO HOW TO
HANDLE UP A THIS INFORMATION IN
A RESPECTFUL, FAIR AND SAFE
MANNER AND HOW TO MAKE SURE THAT
INSTITUTIONS THAT ARE LARGE AND
INHERENTLY POWERFUL, WHETHER
GOVERNMENTS OR CORPORATIONS,
HAVE SOME BALANCE, BECAUSE THEIR
POWER IS BEING INCREASED IN A
SUBSTANTIAL WAY BECAUSE OF ALL
THIS INFORMATION.
>> Brown: KATHERINE STEINER,
PICK UP ON THAT.
HOW MUCH ARE PEOPLE, INDIVIDUALS
ADAPTING TO THAT?
HOW MUCH ARE WE AWARE OF WHAT'S
GOING ON AND HOW MUCH CONCERN DO
YOU SENSE FROM PEOPLE?
>> I THINK PEOPLE ARE BECOMING
INCREASINGLY CONCERNED AND I
THINK ONE OF THE GOOD FRIENDS IN
SCHOOLS I WORK IN ARE SCHOOLS
ARE DOING MORE INTENTIONAL
EDUCATION AROUND SOCIAL
EMOTIONAL INTELLIGENCE, TEACHING
KIDS DIGITAL CITIZENSHIP,
CULTURAL LITERACY, HELPING THEM
UNDERSTAND THAT MULTI-TASKING
DOESN'T HELP YOU GET YOUR
HOMEWORK DONE AT ALL AND REALLY
TRYING TO HELP CHILDREN
UNDERSTAND THE DISINHIBITING
EFFECTS OF BEING ON THE INTERNET
CAN LEAD THEM TO SAY AND DO AND
ACT IN WAYS THAT ARE NOT THEIR
BEST SELVES.
>> Brown: JENNY, ANOTHER THEME
I WANT TO BRING OUT IS THE MIX
OF FREE INFORMATION AND THE
COMMERCIALIZATION OF THE WEB,
BECAUSE I THINK THAT WAS NOT --
WELL, YOU CAN TELL ME HOW MUCH
THAT WAS PART OF THE ORIGINAL
IDEA, BUT CERTAINLY WE'RE IN A
MUCH MORE COMMERCIALIZED SPACE.
>> YEAH, OBVIOUSLY, WHEN THE
INTERNET BEGAN, THIS WAS
SOMETHING THAT EVOLVED OUT OF
THE GOVERNMENT AND OUT OF THE
PUBLIC SECTOR AND IT WASN'T
INTENDED AS A BIG SHOPPING MALL.
YOU KNOW, THIS WAS SOMETHING
WHERE WE COULD COMMUNICATE IN
TIMES OF A DISASTER, OUR
GOVERNMENT COULD FUNCTION IN
TIMES OF A DISASTER, AND THE
HISTORY IS ALL BUT FORGOTTEN,
NOW, WHERE EVERYTHING -- I
HARDLY GO TO STORES ANYMORE.
I BUY ALMOST EVERYTHING FROM MY
HOME OFF AMAZON OR ZAPPOS OR
WHAT HAVE YOU, I BUY DIGITAL
MOVIES AND WATCH DIGITAL TV AND
SO ON.
JUST AS THE INTERNET ENABLES
INTERESTING NEW KINDS OF
INDEPENDENT BUSINESSES THAT
WOULDN'T HAVE BEEN POSSIBLE
BEFORE, THE SENSE OF POWER AND
COMMERCE CONSOLIDATED INTO THE
HANDS OF A FEW EXTRAORDINARILY
POWERFUL COMPANIES I THINK
SHOULD BE CONCERNING.
THE FACT THAT, FOR INSTANCE,
GOOGLE IS PROVIDING, YOU KNOW,
THE FIBER TO OUR HOMES OR
Facebook ARE PROVIDING THE
DRONES THAT WILL FLY ABOVE
DELIVERING WIRELESS INTERNET, AT
THE SAME TIME THEY'RE CONNECTING
US SOCIALLY AND BECOMING THE
PLATFORM FOR COMMERCE, IT'S A
LITTLE WEIRD.
>> THIS TENSION OF THE PUBLIC
AND THE PRIVATE, THE COMMERCIAL
AND NON-COMMERCIAL, AS JENNY
SAID, WAS WITH THE INTERNET FROM
THE VERY BEGINNING.
ONE TO HAVE THE FIRST PUBLIC
POLICY DEBATES ABOUT THE
INTERNET WAS WHETHER TO ALLOW
COMMERCIAL TRAFFIC ON THE
INTERNET AT ALL.
IT WAS ORIGINALLY A NETWORK
BUILT FOR UNIVERSITIES AND
RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS.
FRANKLY, A LOT OF MY COLLEAGUES
LIKED IT THAT WAY.
IT WAS THEIR OWN PRIVATE
PLAYGROUND AND WAS A VERY
HIGH-MINDED KIND OF PLACE.
MANY OF US, THOUGH, FELT IT WAS
IMPORTANT TO OPEN THE INTERNET
AND THE WEB UP TO COMMERCIAL
TRAFFIC, IN SOME PART BECAUSE IT
WAS THE ONLY WAY WE COULD REALLY
IMAGINE THE INTERNET ACTUALLY
BEING ABLE TO SPREAD ALL AROUND
THE WORLD.
WE DID NOT THINK IT WAS EITHER
FEASIBLE OR EVEN A GOOD IDEA FOR
THE GOVERNMENT TO OWN THE ENTIRE
INTERNET, FROM A CIVIL LIBERTIES
PERSPECTIVE WE DIDN'T WANT A
GOVERNMENT-OWNED MEDIUM WHERE
THE GOVERNMENT COULD CONTROL WHO
COULD SAY WHAT ON IT.
>> Brown: DIFFERENT
ALTERNATIVES.
>> SO WE INEVITABLY ENDED UP IN
A SITUATION WHERE WE RELY ON THE
COMMERCIAL MARKETPLACE AND ON
PRIVATE INVESTMENT TO BRING MUCH
OF THE INFRASTRUCTURE AND
SERVICES TO US.
CERTAINLY AT THE LARGE END OF
THAT WHERE COMPANIES GET TOO
BIG, WE HAVE ANTI-TRUST
CONCERNS, BUT I THINK WE ARE
INEVITABLY IN THIS SITUATION
THAT THIS INFRASTRUCTURE WE RELY
ON FOR BOTH PUBLIC AND PRIVATE
GOODS IS OPERATED AS A
COMMERCIAL ENTERPRISE.
>> Brown: KATHERINE STEINER,
WHAT'S YOUR SENSE OF WHERE WE
ARE IN THIS EVOLUTION?
>> I THINK ONE THING HAS
PARTICULARLY IMPORTANT TO THINK
ABOUT -- TWO THINGS, ACTUALLY --
IS WHEN TEXT REPLACES TONE IN
THE WAY WE COMMUNICATE.
THIS IS THE FIRST GENERATION OF
TEENAGERS TO THINK ABOUT TEXTING
IS GREAT AND TALKING ON THE
PHONE IS WEIRD AND INTRUSIVE AND
AWKWARD.
BUT WE ARE REALLY RETHINKING
ABOUT ONE OF OUR MOST ESSENTIAL
FORMS OF HUMAN CONNECTION, OUR
CAPACITY TO HEAR ONE ANOTHER AND
SPEECH, TO READ SOCIAL CUES, TO
LOOK SOMEBODY IN THE EYES.
YOU CAN'T LOOK INTO SOMEONE'S
EYES THE SAME WAY WHEN YOU'RE
SKYPING.
TEXTING CAN BE GOOD BUT IT CAN'T
TEACH US TO BE ALONE AND QUIET
WITH OURSELVES AND THAT'S
IMPORTANT.
>> Brown: WE'LL FINISH THIS UP
HERE.
WHAT'S YOUR SENSE OF WHERE WE
ARE AND THE SAME QUESTION, THE
EVOLUTION.
>> WELL, IT'S INTERESTING.
WHAT IF SOME OF THE PROBLEMS
WE'RE TALKING ABOUT NOW ARE JUST
DESIGN LIMITATIONS?
WHAT IF THE TECHNOLOGY THAT
COMES, PERHAPS AFTER WE'RE GONE,
ALLOWS US TO COMMUNICATE WITH
MORE NUANCE AND TO DRIFT IN AND
OUT OF THAT MINDFULNESS AND
PRESENCE IN THE SAME KIND OF
SUBTLE AND NATURAL WAY THA WE
ALL DID BEFORE THERE WERE TV AND
PHONES?
>> AS WE THINK ABOUT HOW FAR
WE'VE COME IN 25 A YEARS IN THE
EVOLUTION OF THE TECHNOLOGY AND
OUR SOCIAL LIVES BUILT AROUND IT
AS KATHERINE IS SUGGESTING, I
THINK IT'S REALLY IMPORTANT TO
RECOGNIZE THAT ALL OF THESE
TECHNOLOGIES, THE WEB IS REALLY
A WORK IN PROGRESS, STILL.
IT IS CHANGING SO MUCH, AND I
THINK OUR GOAL OUGHT TO BE MAKE
SURE IT'S CHANGING IN RESPONSE
SEE IN SO MANY WAYS THAT EVEN
LARGE COMMERCIAL SERVICES LIKE
Facebook AND GOOGLE, WHEN THEY
DO THINGS THAT ANGER THEIR
USERS, THEY KNOW IT, AND THEIR
USERS REACT, AND VERY OFTEN
THOSE SERVICES CHANGE.
SO AS LONG AS WE'RE IN AN
ENVIRONMENT WHERE THAT CAN BE
THAT KIND OF FLEXIBILITY, I
THINK WE'LL CONTINUE TO HEAD IN
THE RIGHT KIND OF HUMANE
DIRECTION.
>> Brown: WE'LL GATHER IN 25
YEARS AND SEE WHERE WE'RE AT.
THANK YOU ALL VERY MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: WE'LL BE RIGHT BACK
WITH THE FIRST IN-DEPTH REPORT
ON THE COMMERCIAL SEX TRADE IN
CITIES ACROSS AMERICA.
BUT FIRST THIS IS PLEDGE WEEK ON
P.B.S.
THIS BREAK ALLOWS YOUR PUBLIC
TELEVISION STATION TO ASK FOR
YOUR SUPPORT.
AND THAT SUPPORT HELPS KEEP
PROGRAMS LIKE OURS ON THE AIR.
>> Woodruff: FOR THOSE STATIONS
NOT TAKING A PLEDGE BREAK WE
TAKE A SECOND LOOK AT A REPORT
WHICH SHEDS LIGHT ON HUNGER IN
AMERICA.
THE NEWSHOUR'S  MARY JO BROOKS
LOOKS AT A PROGRAM THAT GIVES
WOMEN STRUGGLING TO PUT FOOD ON
THE TABLE A CHANCE TO SHARE
THEIR EXPERIENCES THROUGH THEIR
OWN EYES.
>> Reporter: A YEAR AND A HALF
AGO, 32-YEAR OLD ROBIN
DICKINSON, A FAMILY PRACTICE
PHYSICIAN, WAS LIVING HER DREAM.
SHE AND HER STAY-AT-HOME HUSBAND
TIM WERE RAISING TWO YOUNG
CHILDREN IN A SMALL BUNGALOW IN
SUBURBAN, DENVER.
>> I WAS A NORMAL MOM, TAKING MY
KIDS TO THE ZOO, TAKING MY KIDS
TO THE MUSEUM AND PLAYGROUND.
>> Reporter: THEN THE
UNTHINKABLE HAPPENED: DICKINSON
SUFFERED TWO STROKES THAT LEFT
HER UNABLE TO WORK MORE THAN AN
HOUR OR TWO AT A TIME.
>> I FATIGUE VERY EASILY.
SO WHEN I GET TIRED AFTER A FEW
HOURS, I GET DIZZY.
IF I'M WALKING DOWN A HALL AND
SOMEONE IS WALKING THE OTHER
WAY, I FALL.
>> Reporter: SHE WAS FORCETOD
QUIT HER JOB, AND LIVE OFF
SAVINGS WHILE SHE RECOVERED.
HER HUSBAND CONTINUED TO CARE
FOR THE CHILDREN, AND NOW HER.
AND WHILE THEY MANAGED TO PAY
MORTGAGE AND UTILITY BILLS,
THERE WAS ALMOST NO MONEY
LEFTOVER FOR FOOD.
>> WE WERE DOWN TO THE POINT
WHERE WE WERE EATING POTATOES
AND OATMEAL AND RICE, POTATOES,
OATMEAL AND RICE.
AND ONE NIGHT IT SUDDENLY
OCCURRED TO ME, WE QUALIFY FOR
ASSISTANCE.
THERE'S A SAFETY NET FOR A
REASON.
IT'S FOR PEOPLE IN OUR
SITUATION.
IT HAS NOTHING TO DO WITH YOUR
EDUCATION OR HOW GOOD A PERSON
YOU ARE OR HARD YOU WORK.
IT HAS EVERYTHING TO DO WITH
YOUR FINANCIAL SITUATION.
AND OUR FINANCIAL SITUATION WAS
REALLY BAD.
>> Reporter: LAST APRIL SHE
APPLIED, AND QUALIFIED, FOR FOOD
STAMPSNOW , KNOWN AS THE
SUPPLEMENTAL NUTRITION
ASSISTANCE PROGRAM OR SNAP.
>> ILL NEVER FORGET THAT FIRST
GROCERY TRIP.
MY KIDS WERE SO EXCITED.
ELEANOR LOVES CUCUMBERS, SO WE
GOT HER CUCUMBERS.
SHE'S SITTING IN THE CART
HUGGING HER CUCUMBER AND CHARLIE
HAS HIS WATERMELON IN HIS LAP.
WE GOT ALL THIS STUFF THAT WE
HADN'T EATEN IN MONTHS AND WE
WENT TO THE CHECKOUT AND WERE
GETTING EVERYTHING PAID FOR AND
THE CHECKER SAYS WHAT'S GOING
ON?
IS IT SOMEBODY'S BIRTHDAY?
AND I SAID WE WENT GROCERY
SHOPPING!
>> Reporter: THE EXPERIENCE OF
SUDDENLY FALLING INTO POVERTY
HAS MADE DICKINSON AN ADVOCATE,
SPEAKING OUT ON THE IMPORTANCE
OF MAINTAINING, AND IMPROVING,
SAFETY NET PROGRAMS.
SEVERAL MONTHS AGO, SHE JOINED A
PROJECT SPONSORED BY THE NON-
PROFIT GROUP HUNGER EEFR
COLORADO WHICH GIVES CAMERAS TO
RECIPIENTS OF SNAP BENEFITS, AND
ASKS THEM TO CHRONICLE WHAT IT'S
LIKE TO BE HUNGRY IN AMERICA.
15 WOMEN ARE ON THE PILOT
PROJECTS.
THEY COME FROM ALL WALKS OF
LIFE, AND THEIR PHOTOGRAPHS HAVE
BECOME PART OF A TRAVELING
EXHIBIT SEEN IN COFFEE SHOPS,
LIBRARIES, CHURCHES AND MOST
RECENTLY THE LOBBY OFHE
COLORADO STATE CAPITOL.
>> IT'S SUCH A POWERFUL
PRESENTATION.
>> Reporter: AT EACH EXHIBIT
OPENING, THE WOMEN SHARE STORIES
WITH ANYONE WHO LISTENED.
>> I HAD STR AOKE AND ENDED UP
IN THE SAME SITUATION AS ALL THE
OTHER WOMEN IN THE EXHIBIT, NOT
BEING ABLE TO AFFORD FOOD AND
MEDICAL CARE.
A LOT OF PEOPLE SEE ME AND I
LOOK PERFECTLY NORMAL TO THEM
AND THEY DON'T UNDERSTAND THE
STRUGGLES THAT I HAVE.
YOU CAN'T SEE AUTISM AND YOU
CAN'T SEE POSTTRAUMATIC STRESS
DISORDER.
>> SOMETIMES IT'S DIFFICULT TO
TELL BY LOOKING AT THE PHOTO
WHAT THEY HAVE TO DO WITH
HUNGER, BUT THE WOMEN EXPLAIN.
>> BUILDINGS DON'T FEED ME.
YOU SPEND HOW MUCH MONEY ON THE
BUILDINGS BUT YET OUR PEOPLE ARE
HUNGRY.
>> GOING TO THE GROCERY STORE
WAS EXTREMELY STRESSFUL BECAUSE
EVERY TIME I WENT I KNEW I
WOULDN'T BE ABLE TO GET
EVERYTHING ON
EXPLORED CHILD PORNOGRAPHY.
TELL US MORE ABOUT THAT.
>> WHEN WE ESSENTIALLY FIRST
RECEIVED THE -- PROPOSED TO THE
N.I.J. TO STUDY THIS, WE
CONSIDERED CHILD PORNOGRAPHY TO
BE PART OF THE UNDERGROUND
COMMERCIAL SEX BUSINESS.
BUT WE FOUND THE COMMERCIAL
ASPECT IS NOT IN THE UNITED
STATES BUT IMAGES TRADED FOR
FREE AND THE URGENCY AND
PROLIFERATION OF DRNOGRAPHY BECO
GET INTO MORE OF THE DEEPER
MEMBERSHIP COMMUNITIES YOU HAVE
TO PRODUCE YOUR OWN CHILD
PORNOGRAPHY.
>> Sreenivasan: SO WHETHER A
DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE OR A LOCAL
POLICE THAT READS THIS REPORT,
WHAT DO THEY GET OUT OF IT?
>> I THINK THAT NOW THAT WE HAVE
ENTRY PATHWAY OF RECRUITMENT, AT
LEAST FROM A PREVENTION SIDE, WE
CAN FIGURE OUT NOT ONLY HOW TO
PREVENT INDIVIDUALS AN OTHER
VICTIMS FROM BEING REVIEWED BUT
FIGURING OUT STRATEGIES TO
PREVENT FUTURE PIMPS FROM
ENTERING.
AS FAR AS INTERVENTION,
PSYCHOLOGICAL COERCION IS USED
QUITE OFTEN TO RETAIN THEIR
"EMPLOYEES" SO A LOT MORE
SERVICES NEED TO BE PROVIDED FOR
THE VICTIMS TO LEAVE THAT LIFE
FOR MENTAL HEALTH PURPOSES.
ONE ELEMENT WE SAW WAS THE
ORGANIZED CRIMINAL ELEMENT,
PARTICULARLY IN LATINO BROTHELS,
ASIAN MASSAGE PARLORS AND ONE
PERSON SAID THEY DON'T HAVE
ENOUGH FUNDING TO INFILTRATE
THAT AND MORE FUNDING WOULD BE
NEEDED.
>> THANKS SO MUCH.
YOU.
>> Woodruff: AGAIN, THE MAJOR
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY.
CHINA REPORTED SATELLITE IMAGES
OF SUSPECTED DEBRIS IN THE SOUTH
CHINA SEA FROM THE MISSING
MALAYSIAN AIRLINER.
AND PRESIDENT OBAMA HOSTED
UKRAINE'S INTERIM PRIME
MINISTER, WARNING AGAIN THAT
RUSSIA WILL PAY A PRICE IF IT
DOES NOT DEFUSE THE CRISIS.
ON THE NEWSHOUR ONLINE RIGHT
NOW:
ONE FAMILY, THREE DIFFERENT
IMMIGRATION CHALLENGES.
MEET THE FOFANAS, WHO FLED TO
THE U.S. MORE THAN A DECADE AGO
FROM MALI TO PREVENT THE
MUTILATION OF THEIR DAUGHTER.
NOW THEY LIVE IN CONSTANT FEAR
OF DEPORTATION AS THEY TRY TO
NAVIGATE THE COMPLEXITIES OF THE
IMMIGRATION SYSTEM.
SO MANY SITUATIONS AND WE
DON'T KNOW WHAT WOULD HAPPEN,
YOU KNOW.
WE COULD BE DEPORTED.
WE DON'T KNOW.
THAT'S WHY WE NEED TO MOVE FROM
THIS SITUATION.
SO TO GO FORWARD.
>> Woodruff: READ THE FULL STORY
AND MORE ON OUR WEBSITE,
newshour.pbs.org.
>> Woodruff: AND THAT'S THE
NEWSHOUR FOR TONIGHT.
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF, WE'LL SEE YOU
ON-LINE AND AGAIN HERE TOMORROW
EVENING.
FOR ALL OF US HERE AT THE PBS
NEWSHOUR, THANK YOU AND GOOD
NIGHT.